---
id: public
title: Public
sidebar_label: Public
---

Public files with direct URLs.

## Public Folder

The `📂 public` folder contains the client-side UI (User Interface) content after compilation, along with other public files
such as logos and icons.

It can contain any file that needs to be publicly accessible.

## Folder Structure

When you enter the `📂 public` folder, you'll find the following default structure:

<pre class="doc-structure__tree">
<span>./<b>public</b>/</span>
&nbsp;<span>├─ ./<b>images</b>/</span>
&nbsp;│   <span>├─ ./<b>icon.png</b></span>
&nbsp;│   <span>├─ ./<b>logo-main.png</b></span>
&nbsp;│   <span>└─ ./<b>logo.png</b></span>
&nbsp;<span>├─ ./<b>scripts</b>/</span>
&nbsp;│   <span>├─ ./<b>ui.js</b></span>
&nbsp;│   <span>└─ ./<b>ui.js.map</b></span>
&nbsp;<span>└─ ./<b>styles</b>/</span>
&nbsp;    <span>├─ ./<b>main.css</b></span>
&nbsp;    <span>└─ ./<b>ui.css</b></span>
</pre>

## Images

The `📂 images` folder initially contains the application logos and the icon.

This folder is where you can place all of your application's public images.

### icon.png

Application icon, appears in the browser tab (favicon).

### logo.png

This is the logo image displayed on the back office login page and error pages.

### logo-main.png

This is the logo image displayed in the header after logging in and entering the back office.

### Scripts

The `📂 scripts` folder contains the final JavaScript code generated by the UI compilation; this is where other public JavaScript files can be placed.

### ui.js

The `ui.js` file is the final code compilation of the UI.

Typically, the UI is developed in React and LESS, using [Vite](https://vite.dev/) to compile
the final JavaScript bundle, which is the `ui.js` file.

The compilation instructions are located in `ui/vite.config.js`, which contains the details of how `ui.js`
is processed and generated.

### ui.js.map

The `ui.js.map` file is the UI's source map; this file is important for indicating the original code
when debugging errors in the browser console.

### Styles

The `📂 styles` folder should contain the CSS files used to style the application.

### main.css

`main.css` is typically used for global CSS or to change Netuno's default styles.

### ui.css

`ui.css` is the CSS generated from the UI compilation.

Typically, the UI is developed in React and LESS, and [Vite](https://vite.dev/) is used to compile
the final CSS bundle, `ui.css`.

The compilation instructions are located in `ui/vite.config.js`, which contains the details of how `ui.css`
is generated.
