---
id: backoffice
title: Backoffice
sidebar_label: Backoffice
---

For web development / Mobile applications it is very common to have the concept of backoffice or data management layer.

In other words, is normally the web layer where business management users will enter an interface that allows us to carrying out data interventions.

Also very common to have the following requirements:

- User Management
- Management User Groups;
- Database manipulation records all adapted to business rules;
- Record of User Logs;
- Limit access, Building permissions, depending on the Group & User;
- Allow access via browser and mobile devices;
- Management reports process;
- Adapted dashboard to the business with important info and graphs presented;

Developing the backoffice often takes as much or more time spent than developing the final application.

Also very common for the back office to provide the [REST API](https://doc.netuno.org/docs/en/academy/server/services/openapi/) with web services that will allow the communication of datta business with the final application or the frontend.

<iframe frameborder="0" style="width:100%;height:400px;" src="https://www.draw.io/?lightbox=1&highlight=FFFFFF&layers=1&nav=1&title=Business%20-%20Backoffice.drawio#R3ZjbctowEIafxpfJ%2BMjhMgGSppO0mZI0yaUsrQ%2FFWB5ZHNyn7xrLGGMIJCUldLhA%2B2tXknf1SR5rVm88vxYkCe44g0gzdTbXrL5mmobV7eBfrmSF4pSCL0KmnCphGP4GJepKnYQM0pqj5DySYVIXKY9joLKmESH4rO7m8ag%2Ba0J8aAhDSqKm%2BhQyGRRqS9cr%2FQuEfqBmthzVMSalrxLSgDA%2BW5GsgWb1BOeyaI3nPYjy3JVpKeKutvQu1yUglvsEkO5g6gn5eP2te%2FPTiONnei%2FP1ChTEk3U82pmK8LxLlk4xaafNy9JCnkFoezDSVa6N0T08VHTUnfFuud6%2FCI9MitTjplK8ibNojBmINBnFoQShgmhuT7DnYZaIMcRWkY%2BBZ%2BgI7t1lwKhI1%2Fk6veJxFFA6V4YRT0ecbGYyfI6FChFPZWCj2Clx%2B04NpayXN0UhIT51swby3oiB8DHIEWGLirAtOwiRCFgOu3CnlUbyii3SbCymTpKI2oP%2B8uhqzpjQ5X6DWXvNnIODHe9MrmQAfd5TKJBpV7SiZgCU3msXG45T5T4C6TMFMFkInm9RkWKS4bMTUm3%2B%2FlvmfR8Ta%2BnHB%2BBTwSFVx7VVGcGET7IXSQ0SyggIjKc1tdx8HqY%2B2C45Kniko6454V0FUx3F2yNcZ8AY%2FQhiCmOlO4ddnF%2Fg2E%2FBsMHLd%2B76KJ%2FfXp4N%2FSiQBgNfTfvaxgzAh1vI8Yt2gHXOxDGeh1jw3aaGHc2YNz6KIwNo5HGj%2BcYsyWy57xO56ZT2i%2BqbgujP69ZmbKOdABYex4A5jEPAGufA%2BAiSdDnSvBYQszewveZi1f41ogDkuh50Np8obJ219UPdKEarTUS97xPPwzE9js4%2FDv02m9Cr8b8kTi0T4FDu8FhAd0dd0Os2umhYhmfDBXDPOadZdSoOXd2cAPzUD5Xnmi9lINguwrKjSNfc84p4OVswasP6UhiLU%2BPL%2FuzXUWGddR3wv%2BWr%2FJ71OcGrFzlCmH4%2BpciNyfI1r%2B7utCsPsQt%2Bla%2BZlqDPw%3D%3D"></iframe>

_Netuno_ brings a powerful backoffice engine where without code it is possible to build the data structure generating forms integrated with the database for the most common manipulations such as `CREATE`, `SEARCH`, `EDIT` and `DELETE`.

> Users and Groups Management, Log Records and Access Controls

Allows you to create with low-code dashboards, reports and the [REST API](https://doc.netuno.org/docs/en/academy/server/services/openapi/) (web services) integrated with [JWT Token](https://doc.netuno.org/docs/en/academy/server/services/jwt/).

> _Netuno_ will offer all the functionalities that can be tailored to your Business.

## New Projects - Backoffice

When developing new projects, especially when it comes to applications for external customers, is usually common to cut in backoffice budget.

The reaosn why it will not be visible to the target customer, so it can be left in the background.

In addition, the main goal is more about the `Final Result` and not through management internal layers, even more when it involves relevant costs.

Therefore during development and especially at the time of testing, having a backoffice interface will allow a better assessment of data.

_Netuno_ easily build the **Data Model and Auto-provide Responsive Forms for Data Management in a Web Interface**, you will automatically obtain the simple backoffice interface just using _Netuno_ in the Data Structure Modeling phase.

Afert that can be choosed to evolve further to the point of developing dashboards, reports and web services all in one.

Due to some kind of limitations, can be developed `web services` and all the `REST API` with any other technology, just for this to consume the database generated by _Netuno_.

## Existing Applications Backoffice

In already existed applications and where a backoffice has not been developed or even if it exists and there are some limitations.

_Netuno_ can be used either to carry out the expansion of the existing backoffice or the missing one.

As with _Netuno_ the effort to create a backoffice with is very reduced, an entire backoffice and modules can be made in _Netuno_

It is up you to decide the direction of technologies options to use, it will not be necessary to complicate, thinking about modular backoffice that is being developed and growing over time according to their needs.

Usually developing in modules is very complex, thus with _Netuno_ simplifies this process by allowing the multi-developed applications in the same database, also an excellent solution for developing independent auxiliary modules to extend an existing back office without impacting the existing one .

_Netuno_ easily integrates and manages multiple databases in the same application, will be easy to import/export data to another database.

Thus being able to better separate the complexity of the backoffice from the _Netuno_ applications that are like "modules" in addition to the existing.

## Summarizing

One of the main goals of _Netuno_ is to simplify the backoffice development as much as possible and perform the integration both in existing and new projects where can be integrated well with other technologies.

_Netuno_ is not a closed platform where all development must be done on it, in other hand _Netuno_ can be used simply to meet specific needs to overcome the limitations of:

- Cost
- Time

Offering integration with any other technology.

For example if the issue will be the lack of money or the delivery date is too tight, or if there is a huge complexity and several technologies to integrate, _Netuno_ should be seen as one more technology that will reduce the cost and time, making your life easier.
