---
sidebar_position: 6
id: api
title: API
---

_Netuno_ has its own framework for creating low-code REST APIs, with support for JWT (JSON Web Token) and OpenAPI 3.0.

> More Info about [Open API](https://doc.netuno.org/docs/en/academy/server/services/openapi/)

The entire development framework of web services in _Netuno_ is very versatile allowing any type of development to be carried out.

The framework already offers several features for low-code development, saving many lines of code to fulfill the most common needs such as sending `mails`, consuming other `REST APIs`, integrating with other `databases`, generating `PDF` and `Excel` files, sending `SMS`, manipulating data database and many others.

Nevertheless when there are no solutions in the _Netuno_ framework, it is possible to easily integrate existing **Java**, **Kotlin**, or even **JavaSript** libraries or to develop resources tailored to be integrated with the _Netuno_ framework.

## JWT - JSON Web Token

[JWT.io](https://jwt.io/) is the standard specification for passing data from the session context to the client via JSON object.

> More Info about [JWT Token](https://doc.netuno.org/docs/en/academy/server/services/jwt/)

Therefore, the server does not need to store the sensitive data of the users logged in, instead it becomes a token that is passed on to the client and later on each request this token must be returned.

This token undergoes some security controls such as a validity timeout and a process to allow the creation of a new token without requiring new authentication.

_Netuno_ has integrated **JWT support**, simple and easy to use, also works integrated with _Netuno_ users and native authenticity.

## OpenAPI 3.0

After the success of Swagger v1 and v2, which have long since become a standard for developing the definition of web services and generating client code.

Swagger made its definition open and started to be [OpenAPI 3](https://www.openapis.org/).

For this reason, remains the foundation for setting the standard of how it is documenting the API and how customers are generated to consume the API.

_Netuno_ already has all the integration with OpenAPI 3.0 and that uses the definition of OpenAPI together with the validation of [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/).

_Netuno_ allows validating the `input` and `output` of web services using the validation of the `JSON schema` to obtain and return as you can see below:

- `Input`: If there is a call to the web service that does not comply with the structure and validations then it will be rejected.
- `Output`: If data is returned that does not comply with the defined structure and validations, then an alert is generated that the web service is not in compliance.

_Netuno_ saves the creation of many `if`s in code to validate the data received, as well as guarantee a validation of the result that the web service is generating, performing a _unit test_.

The OpenAPI structure generated by _Netuno_ can be used with the [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/) to generate the test interface, documentation and code for API clients in other technologies.

## Basic

_Netuno_ also supports the creation of web services and hassle-free authentication. It is not compulsory to use JWT or OpenAPI, despite being a highly recommended and standard tool.

It is often used to accelerate the building process of the API or even in situations that involve communication between servers, we choose to simplify as much as possible and save more time.

> _Netuno_ allows [HTTP authentication](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication).


